# React Native Setup

## [Getting Started](https://reactnative.dev/docs/environment-setup)

## What is React Native ?

- React Native is a framework for building apps that work on both Android and iOS.
- It allows you to create real native apps using JavaScript and React.
- This differs from frameworks like Cordova, where you use HTML to build the UI, which will then just be displayed within the device’s integrated mobile browser (WebView). React Native has built-in components which are compiled to native UI components, while your JavaScript code is executed through a virtual machine.
- This makes React Native more performant than Cordova.

## What is EXPO ?

- Expo allows you to build React Native apps without the initial headache that comes with setting up your development environment.
- It only requires you to have Node installed on your machine, and the Expo client app on your device or emulator.
- Expo is actually a platform that gives you access to tools, libraries and services for building Android and iOS apps faster with React Native.
- Expo comes with an SDK which includes most of the APIs you can ask for in a mobile app development platform:
  - Camera
  - ImagePicker
  - Facebook
  - GoogleSignIn
  - Location
  - MapView
  - Permissions
  - Push Notifications
  - Video

## Setting Up the React Native Development Environment

- Step1 -> Install Node
- step2 -> install react native expo **npm install -g expo-cli**
- Step3 -> Next, install Yarn, the preferred package manager for Expo: **npm install -g yarn**

## we can use create-react-native-app or expo to create react native app

## Create App using expo command

- expo init appName
- npm start or yarn start
- to add api yarn add pokemon axios
-

## Using cl

- react-native init [PROJECT-NAME]
- cd [PROJECT-NAME]
- react-native run-android
- react-native run-ios
- react-native build-android
- react-native build-ios
- react-native link [LIBRARY-NAME] ( Link dependencies to native projects )
- watchman watch-del-all (If something don’t run as expected, maybe you need to clear and create a new bundle with this command.)
-

## React Native Project using TypeScript

- Add to existing project
  - npm install -D @tsconfig/react-native @types/jest @types/react @types/react-test-renderer typescript
- Create new project with Typescript
  - npx react-native init YourProjectName --template react-native-template-typescript
