# React Basics

## What is React Native ?

- React Native is a popular open-source framework developed by Facebook for building mobile applications using JavaScript and React.
- It enables developers to build native mobile apps for iOS and Android platforms using a single codebase, which significantly speeds up development without compromising on the performance and usability of the apps.
- With React Native, you write components with JSX, a syntax that combines JavaScript and XML. These components can map to native UI elements like views, text, images, and more.

## Why React Native?

- React Native is a widely popular framework for building native mobile applications using JavaScript and React. There are plenty of reasons why you would want to choose React Native for your next mobile app development project:
- Code reusability
- Familiar React Concepts:
- Native performance
- Vast Ecosystem
- Hot reloading

## React Alternatives

- Flutter being the most popular alternative to React Native.
- Flutter
- Ionic
- Xamarin

## React Native
- React Native uses React, a JavaScript library for building user interfaces.
- You should have a basic understanding of React concepts before proceeding with React Native. Some of the concepts you should be familiar with include:
- **Components and Props**
- **Component State**
- **Writing Markup with JSX**
- **JavaScript in JSX with Curly Braces**

## Component

- Components are one of the core concepts of React. They are the foundation upon which you build user interfaces (UI), which makes them the perfect place to start your React journey!
-

## Props

- React components use props to communicate with each other. Every parent component can pass some information to its child components by giving them props.
- **props in class based component**

```
class Parent extends React.Component {
    render() {
        return (
            <Child example="foo" />
        )
    }
}

class Child extends React.component {
    render() {
        return (
            <h1>{this.props.example}</h1>
        )
    }
}
```

## Component State

## Function Components and Class Components

## Functional Component

```
import React from 'react';
import {Text, View} from 'react-native';

const HelloWorldApp = () => {
  return (
    <View
      style={{
        flex: 1,
        justifyContent: 'center',
        alignItems: 'center',
      }}>
      <Text>Hello, world!</Text>
    </View>
  );
};

export default HelloWorldApp;
```

## Class Based component

```
import React, {Component} from 'react';
import {Text, View} from 'react-native';

class HelloWorldApp extends Component {
  render() {
    return (
      <View
        style={{
          flex: 1,
          justifyContent: 'center',
          alignItems: 'center',
        }}>
        <Text>Hello, world!</Text>
      </View>
    );
  }
}

export default HelloWorldApp;
```

## React Fundamentals

- These are the 4 building blocks of react native

1. components
2. JSX
3. props
4. state

## Components

## JSX

- React and React Native use JSX, a syntax that lets you write elements inside JavaScript like so:

```
<Text>Hello, I am your cat!</Text>.
```

- The React docs have a comprehensive guide to JSX you can refer to learn even more. Because JSX is JavaScript, you can use variables inside it.
- Here you are declaring a name for the cat, name, and embedding it with curly braces inside <Text>.
- Example

```
import React from 'react';
import {Text} from 'react-native';

const Cat = () => {
  const name = 'Maru';
  return <Text>Hello, I am {name}!</Text>;
};

export default Cat;
```

## Props

- Props is short for “properties”. Props let you customize React components.
- For example, here you pass each <Cat> a different name for Cat to render:

```
import React from 'react';
import {Text, View} from 'react-native';

type CatProps = {
  name: string;
};

const Cat = (props: CatProps) => {
  return (
    <View>
      <Text>Hello, I am {props.name}!</Text>
    </View>
  );
};

const Cafe = () => {
  return (
    <View>
      <Cat name="Maru" />
      <Cat name="Jellylorum" />
      <Cat name="Spot" />
    </View>
  );
};

export default Cafe;
```

- **NOTE**
- Notice the double curly braces {{ }} surrounding style‘s width and height. In JSX, JavaScript values are referenced with {}.
- This is handy if you are passing something other than a string as props, like an array or number: <Cat food={["fish", "kibble"]} age={2} />.
- However, JS objects are also denoted with curly braces: {width: 200, height: 200}.
- Therefore, to pass a JS object in JSX, you must wrap the object in another pair of curly braces: {{width: 200, height: 200}}

## State

- While you can think of props as arguments you use to configure how components render, state is like a component’s personal data storage.
- State is useful for handling data that changes over time or that comes from user interaction. State gives your components memory!
- **As a general rule, use props to configure a component when it renders.**
- **Use state to keep track of any component data that you expect to change over time.**
- The following example takes place in a cat cafe where two hungry cats are waiting to be fed. Their hunger, which we expect to change over time (unlike their names), is stored as state. To feed the cats, press their buttons—which will update their state.

```
import React, {useState} from 'react';
import {Button, Text, View} from 'react-native';

type CatProps = {
  name: string;
};

const Cat = (props: CatProps) => {
  const [isHungry, setIsHungry] = useState(true);

  return (
    <View>
      <Text>
        I am {props.name}, and I am {isHungry ? 'hungry' : 'full'}!
      </Text>
      <Button
        onPress={() => {
          setIsHungry(false);
        }}
        disabled={!isHungry}
        title={isHungry ? 'Pour me some milk, please!' : 'Thank you!'}
      />
    </View>
  );
};

const Cafe = () => {
  return (
    <>
      <Cat name="Munkustrap" />
      <Cat name="Spot" />
    </>
  );
};

export default Cafe;
```

## useState

- import React, {useState} from 'react';

```
const Cat = (props: CatProps) => {
  const [isHungry, setIsHungry] = useState(true);
  // ...
};
```

- Calling useState does two things:
  - it creates a “state variable” with an initial value—in this case the state variable is isHungry and its initial value is true
  - it creates a function to set that state variable’s value—setIsHungry
- It doesn’t matter what names you use. But it can be handy to think of the pattern as [<getter>, <setter>] = useState(<initialValue>).

# React Native Hooks

## What is React Hook?

- Hooks are a new addition in React 16.8.
- They let you use state and other React features without writing a class.
- It mainly uses to handle the state and side effects in react functional component.
- React Hooks are a way to use stateful functions inside a functional component.
- Hooks don’t work inside classes — they let you use React without classes React provides a few built-in Hooks like useState and useEffect.

## Why React Hook?

- If you write a function component, and then you want to add some state to it, previously you do this by converting it to a class.
- But, now you can do it by using a Hook inside the existing function component.

# Deep dive into basics
- 

## Flexbox and Layout
- You can find the details about this from [here](https://reactnative.dev/docs/flexbox)
- Flex will define how your items are going to “fill” over the available space along your main axis. Space will be divided according to each element's flex property.
```
    import React from "react";
    import { StyleSheet, Text, View } from "react-native";

    const Flex = () => {
    return (
        <View style={[styles.container, {
        // Try setting `flexDirection` to `"row"`.
        flexDirection: "column"
        }]}>
        <View style={{ flex: 1, backgroundColor: "red" }} />
        <View style={{ flex: 2, backgroundColor: "orange" }} />
        <View style={{ flex: 3, backgroundColor: "green" }} />
        </View>
    );
    };

    const styles = StyleSheet.create({
    container: {
        flex: 1,
        padding: 20,
    },
    });

    export default Flex;
```
- In the above code, total screen will be divided into 3 sections, red view will be 10%, orange will be 20% and green will be 30% of the screen

## Flex Direction
- It controls the direction in which the children of a node are laid out. This is also referred to as the main axis. The cross axis is the axis perpendicular to the main axis, or the axis which the wrapping lines are laid out in.
- **column** (default value) Align children from top to bottom. If wrapping is enabled, then the next line will start to the right of the first item on the top of the container.

- **row** Align children from left to right. If wrapping is enabled, then the next line will start under the first item on the left of the container.

- **column-reverse** Align children from bottom to top. If wrapping is enabled, then the next line will start to the right of the first item on the bottom of the container.

- **row-reverse** Align children from right to left. If wrapping is enabled, then the next line will start under the first item on the right of the container.

## Other properties
- **Layout Direction** specifies the direction in which children and text in a hierarchy should be laid out. Layout direction also affects what edge start and end refer to. By default, React Native lays out with LTR layout direction. In this mode start refers to left and end refers to right.
- **justifyContent** describes how to align children within the main axis of their container. For example, you can use this property to center a child horizontally within a container with flexDirection set to row or vertically within a container with flexDirection set to column
- **alignItems** describes how to align children along the cross axis of their container. It is very similar to justifyContent but instead of applying to the main axis, alignItems applies to the cross axis.
    - stretch, flex-start, flex-end, center, baseline
- **alignSelf** has the same options and effect as alignItems but instead of affecting the children within a container, you can apply this property to a single child to change its alignment within its parent. alignSelf overrides any option set by the parent with alignItems    
- **alignContent** defines the distribution of lines along the cross-axis. This only has effect when items are wrapped to multiple lines using flexWrap.

## Practice [here](https://yogalayout.com/playground/) 
## Flexbox basics [here](https://academind.com/tutorials/flexbox-basics-container) 

## Inline Styles & Stylesheet Objects
- Inline style is where you will add styles to each views or widget inside tha tag
- Stylesheet object means, you will create a stylesheet object and assign the style to each view with its style name.
- Here is the example
```
        export default function App() {
        return (
            <View style={styles.screen}>
            <View style={styles.inputContainer}>
                <TextInput placeholder="Course Goal" style={styles.input} />
                <Button title="ADD" />
            </View>
            <View />
            </View>
        );
        }

        const styles = StyleSheet.create({
        screen: {
            padding: 50
        },
        inputContainer: {
            flexDirection: 'row',
            justifyContent: 'space-between',
            alignItems: 'center'
        },
        input: {
            width: '80%',
            borderColor: 'black',
            borderWidth: 1,
            padding: 10
        }
        });
```

## State and Events
- 
