# React Basics

- React Native uses React, a JavaScript library for building user interfaces.
- You should have a basic understanding of React concepts before proceeding with React Native. Some of the concepts you should be familiar with include:
- **Components and Props**
- **Component State**
- **Writing Markup with JSX**
- **JavaScript in JSX with Curly Braces**

## Component

- Components are one of the core concepts of React. They are the foundation upon which you build user interfaces (UI), which makes them the perfect place to start your React journey!
-

## Props

- React components use props to communicate with each other. Every parent component can pass some information to its child components by giving them props.
- **props in class based component**

```
class Parent extends React.Component {
    render() {
        return (
            <Child example="foo" />
        )
    }
}

class Child extends React.component {
    render() {
        return (
            <h1>{this.props.example}</h1>
        )
    }
}
```

## Component State

## Function Components and Class Components

## Functional Component

```
import React from 'react';
import {Text, View} from 'react-native';

const HelloWorldApp = () => {
  return (
    <View
      style={{
        flex: 1,
        justifyContent: 'center',
        alignItems: 'center',
      }}>
      <Text>Hello, world!</Text>
    </View>
  );
};

export default HelloWorldApp;
```

## Class Based component

```
import React, {Component} from 'react';
import {Text, View} from 'react-native';

class HelloWorldApp extends Component {
  render() {
    return (
      <View
        style={{
          flex: 1,
          justifyContent: 'center',
          alignItems: 'center',
        }}>
        <Text>Hello, world!</Text>
      </View>
    );
  }
}

export default HelloWorldApp;
```

## React Fundamentals

- These are the 4 building blocks of react native

1. components
2. JSX
3. props
4. state

## Components

## JSX

- React and React Native use JSX, a syntax that lets you write elements inside JavaScript like so:

```
<Text>Hello, I am your cat!</Text>.
```

- The React docs have a comprehensive guide to JSX you can refer to learn even more. Because JSX is JavaScript, you can use variables inside it.
- Here you are declaring a name for the cat, name, and embedding it with curly braces inside <Text>.
- Example

```
import React from 'react';
import {Text} from 'react-native';

const Cat = () => {
  const name = 'Maru';
  return <Text>Hello, I am {name}!</Text>;
};

export default Cat;
```

## Props

- Props is short for “properties”. Props let you customize React components.
- For example, here you pass each <Cat> a different name for Cat to render:

```
import React from 'react';
import {Text, View} from 'react-native';

type CatProps = {
  name: string;
};

const Cat = (props: CatProps) => {
  return (
    <View>
      <Text>Hello, I am {props.name}!</Text>
    </View>
  );
};

const Cafe = () => {
  return (
    <View>
      <Cat name="Maru" />
      <Cat name="Jellylorum" />
      <Cat name="Spot" />
    </View>
  );
};

export default Cafe;
```

- **NOTE**
- Notice the double curly braces {{ }} surrounding style‘s width and height. In JSX, JavaScript values are referenced with {}.
- This is handy if you are passing something other than a string as props, like an array or number: <Cat food={["fish", "kibble"]} age={2} />.
- However, JS objects are also denoted with curly braces: {width: 200, height: 200}.
- Therefore, to pass a JS object in JSX, you must wrap the object in another pair of curly braces: {{width: 200, height: 200}}

## State

- While you can think of props as arguments you use to configure how components render, state is like a component’s personal data storage.
- State is useful for handling data that changes over time or that comes from user interaction. State gives your components memory!
- **As a general rule, use props to configure a component when it renders.**
- **Use state to keep track of any component data that you expect to change over time.**
- The following example takes place in a cat cafe where two hungry cats are waiting to be fed. Their hunger, which we expect to change over time (unlike their names), is stored as state. To feed the cats, press their buttons—which will update their state.

```
import React, {useState} from 'react';
import {Button, Text, View} from 'react-native';

type CatProps = {
  name: string;
};

const Cat = (props: CatProps) => {
  const [isHungry, setIsHungry] = useState(true);

  return (
    <View>
      <Text>
        I am {props.name}, and I am {isHungry ? 'hungry' : 'full'}!
      </Text>
      <Button
        onPress={() => {
          setIsHungry(false);
        }}
        disabled={!isHungry}
        title={isHungry ? 'Pour me some milk, please!' : 'Thank you!'}
      />
    </View>
  );
};

const Cafe = () => {
  return (
    <>
      <Cat name="Munkustrap" />
      <Cat name="Spot" />
    </>
  );
};

export default Cafe;
```

## useState

- import React, {useState} from 'react';

```
const Cat = (props: CatProps) => {
  const [isHungry, setIsHungry] = useState(true);
  // ...
};
```

- Calling useState does two things:
  - it creates a “state variable” with an initial value—in this case the state variable is isHungry and its initial value is true
  - it creates a function to set that state variable’s value—setIsHungry
- It doesn’t matter what names you use. But it can be handy to think of the pattern as [<getter>, <setter>] = useState(<initialValue>).

# React Native Hooks

## What is React Hook?

- Hooks are a new addition in React 16.8.
- They let you use state and other React features without writing a class.
- It mainly uses to handle the state and side effects in react functional component.
- React Hooks are a way to use stateful functions inside a functional component.
- Hooks don’t work inside classes — they let you use React without classes React provides a few built-in Hooks like useState and useEffect.

## Why React Hook?

- If you write a function component, and then you want to add some state to it, previously you do this by converting it to a class.
- But, now you can do it by using a Hook inside the existing function component.
