# Debugging React Native Apps
[Debugg](https://medium.com/simform-engineering/different-ways-to-debug-react-native-application-a636ebb4be78)
1. Consoles
2. Inspect Elements
3. Debugging using VS Code
4. Reactotron
5. React Native Debugger
6. Flipper

## Console
- So far, the most convenient way to troubleshoot an issue is to backtrace data utilizing consoles throughout the execution cycle. 
- This is one of the most effective options if your problem involves some modest data manipulation and you are unsure of how a certain operation will turn out.
```
console.log   ('Prints .toString() representation of Value') 
console.warn  ('Prints values as yellow warning') ⚠️
console.error ('Prints values as red error') 🛑
console.table ('Prints values based on index')
console.dir   ('Displays interactive list of the properties')
```
## 2. Inspect Elements
- Inspect Elements can be triggered using the developer menu on Android and iOS, and it can be considered a go-to option to debug UI elements.
- **Inspect:** It provides a selection-based tool that displays the props and style objects applied to the selected element. You can look at the dimensions, CSS, margin, padding, font size, font family, etc.
- Network: It provides you with the network call details like type, method, URL, requestHeaders, responseContentType, responseSize, responseHeaders, status, timeout, response, responseURL, etc.
## 3. Debugging using VS Code
- VS Code inherently doesn’t support debugging in React Native.
- Just go to the Extensions tab and install “React Native Tools”. In the Run & Debug Tab, select “Create a launch.json file”. 
- Then, add configuration for your Android and iOS apps, and you’re good to go.

## 4. Reactotron
- Reactotron: The name may sound like Optimus Prime’s teammate in the film Transformers, but it is a React Native debugging tool.
- It is neither a Chrome debugger replacement nor a debugging tool, but it does provide you with information about what is going on in your application.
- It can detect the error and show you the visual steps that led to it.
- It is one of the most effective tools for tracking API calls and responses.
- When your app interacts with an API, you can get a complete visual representation of the Response, Response Headers, Request Params, and Requested Headers.
## 5. React Native Debugger
- The React Native Debugger is arguably the best debugger to use if your React Native project uses Redux.
- It combines Redux’s DevTools and React’s Developer Tools into a single app, eliminating the need to work with two distinct apps for debugging.

## 6. Flipper
- It is an open-source debugging tool developed by Facebook to debug iOS and Android React Native apps.
- It was introduced with default integration with the launch of React Native 0.62 and has evolved over time and is now a trusted, stable React Native Debugging Tool.
